>> Today on Cosmic Disclosure,
we are with Ricardo Gonzalez,
author and researcher from Peru,
who has experienced multiple
direct contacts with an
extraterrestrial species called
the Apunians.
Today, we're talking about the
origins of contact protocols.
Ricardo, welcome to the show.
>> Thank you, Emery.
>> Ancient hieroglyphics appear
to have shown contact with
the ETs.
Even up to the recent
events of Roswell in 1947,
which has been popularized,
has shown some sort of contact.
How have contact protocols
changed over the centuries?
>> Certainly contact with these
beings comes from very ancient
times.
And as we've talked
about on other occasions,
these beings have
different agendas.
Usually, these protocols of
contact and communication
with them reside specifically
with those civilizations
that are kinder or desire
contact with humans.
For civilizations that do
not want contact with us,
there are obviously
no protocols.
Obviously, as we've
talked before,
there are different
agendas surrounding
these beings' visits.
But here, I'm talking about
those extraterrestrial beings
who do want contact with humans.
Therefore, in that
type of relationship,
there are contact
protocols or methods.
And obviously, those
extraterrestrial civilizations
that do not wish to communicate
with us, in those cases, there
are no protocols.
And all this, Emery, has
been around for a long time.
And it has remained to
some way to this day.
If we look at, for example, the
stories of the ancient prophets
in the Bible, the way they
contacted higher entities
through preparation
with prayer, retreating
to special and remote places,
processing the information
that they received
and then sharing it.
It's not much different from
current contact protocols.
We find this in different
cultures around the world.
With the protocols
of today, there
seems to be an emphasis made
by these extraterrestrial
entities, so that
extraterrestrial contact groups
today may, in some way,
maintain communication
with these entities.
In reality, these
protocols are not
designed to be common knowledge
for humanity for everyone
to go out into the field to try
to contact extraterrestrials
because it doesn't
work like that.
It is important to make these
protocols public in order
to understand how
communication with these beings
works, but not to
irresponsibly encourage
the pursuit of
contact in the field.
This full experience
should obviously
be approached more seriously,
starting with the concept
that it is these beings who set
the agenda for the experience.
With that said, Emery, there's
something very important
within the protocols.
These protocols follow a
very particular pattern.
It is based on awareness,
intuition, and the ability
to elevate our frequency.
Otherwise, I would say
contact protocols have not
been conceived just to
have an external experience
with extraterrestrials, but also
a way to prepare from within.
I try to keep that focus
for contact protocols, which
I reiterate have existed
for thousands of years.
They were put into
practice already
at the time of the 1950s.
And in the case of Peru
and several Latin American
countries, these protocols
are projecting an intention
of thoughtfully preparing for
contact with extraterrestrials
were already being applied.
Personally, I've been doing this
with many groups in the United
States for more than 20 years,
where we have taken groups,
especially, to Mount Shasta,
to practice concentration,
meditation, projection
of positive intentions,
to create the best conditions
for bonding with these beings.
And remember that I'm talking
about the beings we've met.
Human-looking beings who have
kind intentions towards us.
Those are the contact protocols.
A methodology to create the
best conditions for liaisons.
Protocols based on
awareness and sensitivity.
But it's not like abracadabra,
and you apply these protocols,
and these beings appear.
I reiterate, they are methods
to create the best contact
conditions.
But these protocols
are associated
with the agenda and the
decisions of these beings.
>> Are there different types
of contact protocols that you
could describe to us?
>> There are different types
of protocols for coming
into contact with these beings.
These protocols can
change according
to the context and the
kind of experience that
could be developed.
For example, something I've
seen in the United States
is that the protocols that
they're putting into practice
to contact
extraterrestrials, which
are very similar to
the ones we developed
in Latin America
many decades ago,
are associated for the
most part with sightings
of strange lights.
A first approach
through UFO sightings,
sometimes receiving mental
or telepathic messages
or capturing images of
luminous figures, probably
the projection of these entities
with night vision equipment.
Or capturing images of these
entities through technology.
But contact protocols are
much broader than this.
There are contact
protocols that apply
to the projection of your subtle
vehicle into other realities.
I don't just mean what
is called remote viewing
or the projection of your
consciousness to another place,
but to the total detachment of
your physical body to connect
with other realities.
There are also protocols
that are associated
with dimensional portals.
A topic we have discussed on
a previous occasion, where
in addition to the
intention or meditation,
in the case of
dimensional portals,
a lot of active
consciousness is required.
Not entering those vortices
in a state of meditation,
but in active consciousness,
because the vortex
is meditation so to speak.
And also within the protocol
for this type of contact,
there as a physical preparation
that even includes diet,
to make your body
as subtle and less
stressed as possible
before being
exposed to these energies.
So there are different
types of contact
and different
types of protocols.
>> Ricardo, can we
initiate contact,
or is it only
offered by the ETs?
>> It's hard to answer this
question because you can't say
yes or no.
It depends a lot on the
contexts and the beings
with whom you are
in communication.
According to my contact
experience and my own research,
you can create the contact
conditions, try to initiate it,
and sometimes it can work
if these beings agree,
or it is part of their agenda.
Think about it this way.
If contact witnesses
could always
initiate the contact
themselves, the behavior of UFOs
would not be so
elusive, so fleeting.
They behave in that
way because they
try not to encourage
us to be dependent.
They have a greater perspective
on how to manifest themselves,
and they follow very specific
manifestation programs
that humans do not understand.
So we could try to
contact them if we like,
but we would have to wait for
an answer from the other side.
So to a great extent, contacts
are programmed by them.
Many contact groups have
flocked to the desert
or to the mountains,
seeking out sightings
or some kind of phenomenon
with these beings.
And they have said, I was here
on this mountain with Ricardo
Gonzalez a few months ago.
Let's do awareness,
concentration, meditation
practice.
Let's prepare our cameras
and our laser pointers.
And we will observe the sky
in the state of meditation
to see if these
beings answer us.
And some groups have
spent hours or days.
And they have seen
absolutely nothing.
And there are other people
who have gone for a picnic
on a mountain, playing the
guitar and being very happy,
transmitting joy,
tranquility, happiness.
And an object
appeared above them
and illuminated them
with great energy.
There are also
groups that have gone
to meditate to try to have
an experience, for example,
in the forest of Mount Shasta.
And they've had sightings,
and they videotaped them.
But this does not
happen in all cases.
So it is important to understand
that this is not a game, not
entertainment, where
through a cell phone app,
you can have contact
with extraterrestrials.
>> So what protocols do you use
when you go out with your teams
around the world?
>> With my research team, we've
traveled to different places
around the world.
Throughout these almost 30
years of contact and research,
I've traveled to nearly
100 countries in the world,
and I've seen experiences
replicated in different places.
And when I've entered
into communication
with the guardians
of those places,
whether they are natives, or
for example, monks in the Gobi
Desert, these wonderful and
sensitive people, lamas,
shamans, Indigenous
peoples, have
followed the same protocols.
I was surprised.
I don't want to seem
very mysterious,
but there are some things
that I shouldn't say publicly.
But I'm going to share
some of the information
that we had in this
contact experience.
For example, in the past,
our ancestors, the Indigenous
guardians who have had
contact with the universe,
they have managed to
identify certain places
on Earth that serve as vortexes,
so that these places are not
forgotten.
They left marks or signs
that we have learned of
and now know of.
It could be cave paintings,
or it could be petroglyphs,
writing on rock.
Also, the placement of stones
in a purposeful, organized way,
that marked certain places,
where there were contacts
or where the pulse of the
Earth's energy is at work.
When we approach
those kinds of places
at the suggestion of
these protocols delivered
by extraterrestrials, we
follow a careful diet.
We eat very light and
very healthy at least
3 days before
approaching these places.
And when we get to those
spots that have been marked,
we do concentration and
meditation practices.
And we try to establish contact.
In those places, communication
flows more strongly.
Another type of protocol
that we apply is sound.
Something that in US
groups is not applied much.
>> What kind of sound?
>> Through mantras, through the
vocalization of certain codes
or certain words.
Codes that have been received
through automatic writing
or communication
with these beings.
I'm referring to ancient
mantras from India or Tibet
that are well known and help
harmonize groups of people.
There are many
scientific studies
that show how mantras generate
powerful psychological effects
on people, allowing people to be
attuned, focused on a purpose.
And through sound they
raise their frequency,
their vibration.
The issue in the United
States from what I've seen
is that some extraterrestrial
contact groups
try to live these
experiences, but shy away
from doing sound or mantra
exercises because they see it
as a religious thing.
This is bias, which I admit
I also had in the beginning.
But it is one of
our main techniques.
I remember that in the
Chilca Desert in Peru, which
is very famous in the
world for the UFO sightings
that are recorded there,
we did a mutually agreed
upon experiment with
extraterrestrials.
If I remember correctly, we
lived this experience in 1995.
We approached a
certain area close
to the beach that
is along the coast.
And on a large rock
wall, a bright haze
emerged, as if the rock was
emitting a phosphorescence.
And we thought clearly
that energy, that anomaly,
and the extraterrestrials
had told us
that it was an
experiment with us.
And they opened a wrinkle, a
kind of portal on that rock
there in Chilca.
These beings told
us to concentrate
on that portal they had opened.
And they alone would
open it, but they
weren't going to keep it open.
They suggested to
us through messages
that we should stand in front
of this luminous anomaly
and concentrate on it
and recite mantras,
meditating and vocalizing
at the same time.
And we started doing that.
And while we were focusing
and vocalizing the mantras,
the vortex remained
bright and constant.
But if any member of the
group got distracted or tired
and stopped
vocalizing the mantra,
that energy began to
waver somewhat and fade.
I'm embarrassed to say
this, but we were only
able to keep it going
for about 10 minutes.
We ended up exhausted,
very, very tired.
>> Did this wall of
energy and the door,
did you feel like it
maybe downloaded you,
or did you get more
energy from it?
Sounds like you
became more lethargic.
>> No.
This energy field was opened by
these extraterrestrial beings.
And it was somehow
connected to us.
So as we felt, or thought,
or followed these protocol
practices, the anomaly reacted
as if we were united with it.
And this is the basis
of contact protocols.
When you have a contact
with these beings,
or you enter into these
dimensional portals,
you are not alone anymore with
your thoughts and your energy
structure.
You enter a kind of
beehive of consciousness
where these beings are inside
you, and you are inside them.
That is why they insist that
we raise our consciousness,
our frequency, in order to
maneuver appropriately and not
network.
>> You talked about contact
protocols with individuals
and groups.
But what about the
government's covert protocols
through their agencies.
What are they utilizing?
>> We've talked about this
issue privately, Emery,
and you know very well
that this happened.
According to the
information I have,
agencies dedicated to
investigating these phenomena
have realized that they
are limited by technology,
and they try to explore
the human psyche regarding
these phenomena.
This is not something new.
It's been going on a long time.
The experiments that were
done during the Cold War,
for example, are very famous.
But today's agencies
have been able
to infiltrate contact
groups with agents
to see what the dynamics
are of their exercises,
their practices.
How sightings, experiences,
or the manifestation
of dimensional portals occur.
Although it may
surprise you, I've
received emails from people
linked to these agencies.
I have renowned
investigators as witnesses
of what I'm telling you.
They wanted to accompany
me in my research
around the world to see
how this phenomenon worked.
Naturally, I refused, but
that doesn't stop anything.
Because they continue
with their investigations.
I know that they
are specifically
interested in the location
of the places of contact,
to see how they
transform and how
they change with some stimuli.
How to absorb energy
for their experiments.
If this were to allow
them some breakthrough
in their laboratories and
their study of physics
or even human
consciousness, connecting
with Earth's vortices.
There are agencies that
have attempted contact
with extraterrestrials.
But they are forgetting
something elementary.
No matter how much
of all this knowledge
that they absorb and
develop great technology
in their secret
labs, if they do not
have good intentions, whatever
they do, whatever they learn
will be in vain.
>> I agree, Ricardo.
They have to have
the intention of that
love to not hurt and be peaceful
to go amongst the stars again.
>> That's right.
>> Can you define the J. Allen
Hynek typology and how that
relates to close encounters.
>> As we all know, Dr. Hynek
was the father of ufology.
A great scientist.
He first started
out as a skeptic
due to his academic
background and collaborated
with the US Air Force to
investigate UFO sightings.
And finally, Dr.
Hynek became convinced
of the reality of the phenomenon
and that many witnesses
in the world were coming
into contact with something.
He admitted it publicly.
Recently, I gave a lecture, and
Paul Hynek, one of his sons,
participated in it.
He is a dear friend
and a great researcher.
And we discussed the typology
that his father created
to understand close encounters.
A typology based initially
on three scenarios.
It is simple, very simple.
The close encounter of
the first kind, which
is the sighting of the object.
The close encounter
of the second kind,
when there is another type of
interaction with the object,
like physical
evidence, a landing.
And the close encounter
of the third kind,
when the witness comes face to
face with the being associated
with that object.
And it was precisely this third
category of close encounters,
extraterrestrial
physical contact,
that inspired a
20-something Steven
Spielberg to make
his famous film,
Close Encounters of the
Third Kind, where Dr. Hynek
participated as an advisor.
In my humble opinion,
the best film about UFO
phenomenon of all time.
If there are young people
who are watching this show,
I recommend that you see it
because more than a science
fiction film, it is
a historical document
that also reflects some
of the contact protocols.
I don't want to be a spoiler for
those who may not have already
seen the movie,
but the film shows
at least two classic protocols.
One of them, the
harmonization of contact
through sound, which
we have discussed
on a previous occasion.
That in the wake
of a sighting that
occurs in India and
a sound that arises
from the ship that had appeared,
a mantra arises in people.
That is to say that
these people interpreted
the sound, the vibration
of the ship as a mantra.
And then that sound was the
key to the contact happening
on the mountain at
the end of the film.
Sound, vibration is
a contact protocol.
But there's also another
element of contact protocol
in Steven Spielberg's film.
Watch for signs that show you
the place where it will occur.
These signs can be
very powerful and can
evoke an almost irrational
impulse in the contactee
because you are being summoned
to a particular place.
This was depicted very
well in the film, when
there were people painting the
mountain where the contact was
going to happen or other people
who took everything they could
find around, dirt,
mud from pots,
to be able to practically create
a sculpture of the mountain.
And finally, that is
where the contact was.
But no more spoilers.
I will reiterate.
This film is a
historical document
about close encounters and
not just science fiction.
>> Two real quick
things, Ricardo.
One of the main scientists
in there was playing Hynek,
is that correct?
Right.
And didn't the President
of the United States
have a private showing
with Spielberg?
And could you comment
on what he said to them,
or do you know what he
said, you want to say it?
>> I know there were private
screenings of the film
for important authorities.
And there has been
a lot of information
circulated about what
these authorities said
about the film.
Even as you say, the President
himself was involved.
According to the information
I have, and I'm sorry,
but I'm going to let
another spoiler slip,
there's a scene in the movie
where extraterrestrials return
people who had
disappeared in plane
crashes or strange phenomena.
And apparently, this
really happened.
And there was a historic
exchange at a US airbase.
And quite simply, the
film tried to depict that.
I see that you are
informed about that.
But Hynek's typology
was expanded.
Not only are there
three types of contact
according to the typology.
>> So what is that continuation
of the Hynek typology?
>> In 1977, there was an
important ufology conference
in Mexico.
At that time, important
researchers and scientists
such as Dr. Jacques Vallee
and Dr. Hynek participated.
Already in those years, the
Hynek typology was well known.
His research was far reaching.
So a renowned researcher
from Argentina, Fabio Zerpa,
who also participated as a
lecturer at this conference,
told Dr. Hynek that the
typology of close encounters
had to be expanded.
He told Dr. Hynek, we
have close encounters
of sightings, landings, and face
to face encounters with beings.
But what about when that
contact happens inside ships?
In which of the three
typologies does this
fit because close
encounters of the third kind
is the display of the entity
associated with the object,
but you are not
inside the object
because there are many
cases of witnesses
who entered these ships.
Then Dr. Hynek
admitted in private
that his typology of
cases had to be expanded.
Then Fabio Zerpa suggested
two more categories.
Close encounters of the fourth
kind, when the witness enters
the ship, and close
encounters of the fifth kind
or psychic communication
with these beings,
like telepathy or the
power of intention
of groups working to attempt
communication with them.
All this was published
in those years
in Fabio Zerpa's ufology
magazine in Argentina
and also in several books.
So the creator of the term close
encounter of the fourth kind
and fifth kind was Argentine.
And this is not common
knowledge in the United States.
>> Where do you see contact
going as we move into the world
of disclosure?
>> I think contact intentions
by civilians are important.
Not seeking the experience
with extraterrestrials
in a crazy way because,
as I have explained
throughout this
interview, there are
many factors that contribute
to the possibility
of that contact.
Some factors are beyond
us, such as the very agenda
of these beings.
However, I believe that
seeking out contact
is appropriate, at
least as a first step
to open our consciousness.
Interest in establishing
communication with other worlds
I consider to be positive
in terms of intention
because it speaks of
acceptance by a human being,
that you are not alone
in this universe,
and you want to
establish an exchange
with other cosmic cultures.
Later, we could also
discuss whether the way
you want to establish
contact is ideal or not.
The dangers, the dynamics,
and the list goes on.
But intention is
the powerful thing
because we are talking
about open mindedness.
And this is positive for
extraterrestrial manifestation
in the world because the
more open minded people there
are on the planet who consider
extraterrestrial contact
a reality, we will
be more prepared
for a definitive manifestation
that we are not alone.
And I think we're on our way.
Think about it.
Many decades ago, the discussion
of life in the universe
was practically absurd.
But opinions are changing,
even through statements
of prominent scientists,
through statistics,
or through the study of
the possibilities of life
in the universe.
We may not be alone
But if these beings exist,
they haven't made it here yet.
And that's also changing now.
Different surveys that
prestigious universities
have done show that
a large percentage
of the population polled
consider that we are not alone
in the universe, but that these
beings have not yet visited us.
So everything is changing.
And at the moment, we've
moved on to a third question.
OK, we're not alone
in the universe.
And maybe these beings
could reach Earth.
But if they come, they are bad.
Avoid contact with them.
As Stephen Hawking
himself said at one time,
I think it's a mistake to
put all these experiences
and these interpretations in
the same bag as I said before.
So there will be a
great manifestation.
We don't know when
it's going to happen,
but this extraterrestrial
manifestation
is starting with people
searching and their desire
to make contact
because the time has
come to embrace each
other again as a family,
as our cosmic family.
>> Ricardo, thank you for
being on the show again.
It's always a pleasure.
>> Thank you, Emery.
>> I'm Emery Smith, and
this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
>> Next on Cosmic Disclosure.
>> Then I saw a small object,
like a kind of metal egg
in the garden.
It had a luminous opening,
as if a door had been opened.
And out of it came a child.
And this child, with big
eyes and a very tender gaze,
told me that he had
come from the stars
and that he wanted
to be my friend.
This is how my contact
experience began.